---
layout: post
title: "Taylor Swift - Gathering Data"
author: Kelsey Moore
description: Analyzing the popularity of Taylor Swift songs - Part 1
image: /assets/images/taylor-swift-1.jpg
---

As many journalists and pop music enthusiasts have remarked, "Taylor Swift is the music industry." She started her music career 16 years ago, and has released 10 main albums, plus many other singles and specials, for a total of over 200 songs. She has changed genres and styles many times in order to keep up with trends, and she has consistently topped the charts with each new release. Since she has so much music, I thought it would be interesting to see what her most popular songs have in common, and how they differ from her less popular music. 

In order to gather the data, I gained access to the Spotify API, where I was able to get information about each of Taylor Swift's albums. Because this data comes from an API, we don't have to worry about violating any web-scraping rules, because they wouldn't give us access to anything they didn't want us to have. 

The first step in getting this data was to load the required packages and connect to the API.

### Picture steps 1-3

Then, in order to access the right albums, I found and copied all of the Spotify URIs for each album. This is a unique key for identification, and each artist, album, song, playlist, and user has its own URI. I put them all into a list so that I could iterate through them.

## Picture step 5

Once I had all of the data loaded into one table, I had to do a lot of data cleaning to get the information into a format I was able to use. I won't bore you with the details, but in the end, the final dataset includes six variables: Title, Album, Track Number, Rating, Play Count, and Duration in Seconds.

## Picture data frame

Obviously I won't be analyzing for causation, but I would like to see how these different factors correlate to song popularity. I will be using play count to measure song popularity, but I may have to find a way to standardize, since we would expect the older songs to have a higher play count. I'm not sure yet what I'll find, but 

All of my code as well as the full dataset can be found at https://github.com/kbmoore02/Blog_3.git
