---
layout: post
title: "Book Review: Artificial Unintelligence"
author: Kelsey Moore
description: Artificial Intelligence (How Computers Misunderstand the World) by Meredith Broussard
image: /assets/images/artificialsmall.jpg
---

*Artificial Unintelligence: How Computers Misunderstand the World* by Meredith Broussard addresses the idea of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and what that looks like in today's world. She demonstrates the difference between general AI (which we see in movies and tv shows) and narrow AI (which is what actually exists in the real world). Broussard goes on to explore different ways that we use artificial intelligence, and all of the amazing things it can do, as well as all of the ways that it falls short of our hopes and expectations. The biggest theme that Broussard wants us to take away is that it is misguided to believe that computers and artificial intelligence are the best solutions to all of our problems.

Something that Broussard talks about repeatedly is the fact that computers, artificial intelligence, and data all trace back to humans. Computers were invented by people, algorithms are written by people, and all data is created and collected by people. Because all of this technology comes from humans, and because the human race is so wonderfully chaotic, and often unpredictable, technology will never be perfect. We can create predictive models that have very high accuracy, or write algorithms that can map entire cities into a navigable grid, but there will always be errors. As a consequence, we cannot and should not rely on technology to make all of our decisions for us. However, as Broussard continually points out, this is probably a good thing. By turning everything into data and feeding that data into machines which have no souls, we lose the humanity behind it all. A computer can tell us that it is most economically viable to charge poorer people more for insurance, as in one example Broussard gave, but that does not make it ethical or just. Artificial intelligence is not capable of making moral judgements, which is why it is essential to keep technology firmly in the spheres in which it belongs. One quote from the book that I particularly liked that I think summarizes this perfectly says, "Human beings are not, and never will be, statistics."

***Paragraph about what I didn't like***

In *Artificial Unintelligence*, Meredith Broussard speaks admirably about the advancements that have been made in technology and artificial intelligence in recent decades, but she also takes plenty of time to highlight all of the shortcomings and failures that have come hand in hand with that development. As a data journalist, Broussard is always looking into data to find the truth behind every story, and she does the same for artificial intelligence, relying upon studies she has seen and her own personal experience with this technology to reveal to us what the limits of the industry are. I enjoyed reading this book, and would rate it 3.5/5 stars. I would recommend it to anyone who has interest in artificial intelligence, whether in practicality or from science-fiction, but especially to people who have been taught to fear it by popular culture, so that they may unlearn these prejudices, and embrace the *true* technology of the future.
